---
layout: post
title: Playing Screeps
author: Sam Nolan
categories: [Games]
---

This post will show you how to start with screeps and what to do to connect to
the server
<!-- more -->


## Playing Screeps
-----

Screeps!

Have you ever played an RTS like Age of Empires or Starcraft? Imagine playing
that, except every time you make a move the game complains about syntax errors.

Welcome to Screeps! Screeps is a computer game. Playing it requires purchasing
a [client from Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/464350/Screeps/), and
connecting to a server. The game is an RTS where you code your units to behave
in the way that you want them to. Check out the video and description on the
steam page

### Is Screeps for you?
To work with Screeps, you will need a good understanding of programming,
particularly in NodeJS. This knowledge doesn't have to be complete, but I would
recommend understanding the basics of modules, control structures (if, while)
data structures, functions and such things.

You can substitute any of this knowledge with passion and a desire to learn, as
even if you are not familiar with any of this, you can only really get better
at programming

### Connecting to the server
To connect to the server, open the game and connect to a "private server"

The details will be given at the launch at 6pm on 23/03/2020

### Resources
I'm not going to pretend that I could explain screeps better than the
tutorials on the subject. So here's the link you want to go to:

[Official documentation](https://docs.screeps.com/)

It contains a written and interactive tutorial as well as an API reference on
how to get started in screeps. Copy pastable code from the tutorial is here to
get you started:

[Example code](https://github.com/screeps/tutorial-scripts)
